14:51 the projector still doesnt work
16:13 The lesson begin
# Introduction
## IPv4 Addressing
IPv4 address consists by **32 bits**(*4 bytes*), typically written in *dotted-decimal notation*.

> In decimal-dotted notation, each byte of the address is written as a decimal is separated by a period(.): eg $111.111.111.111$

The space of IPv4 addresses is thus $2^{32}\approx 32B$.
An network consisting of some hosts and one router is called **subnet** or **IP network**, which is represented by a **subnet mask**, composed by a **subnet mask** of $n$ bits, which defines the subnet address.
### IPv4 classes
A way to represent an IPv4 network is the **classful addressing**, where:
- an **A class** network, the subnet is composed by the first 8 bits
- an **B class** network, the subnet is composed by the first 16 bits
- an **C class** network, the subnet is composed by the first 24 bits
In this way the subnet address will be long exactly 1,2 or 3 bytes.

This method was soon found to be very inefficient:
- an class C subnet can only accommodate $2^8-2=256$ host: it could be no enough for a medium-sized network
- an class B subnet can support up to $65634$ hosts: could lead to a waste of unused addresses and were depleted soon.
### CIDR - Classless Inter Domain routing
The limitation imposed by the IPv4 classes made the creation of a better general way to represent networks necessary.

A simple solution is to remove the fixed prefix length requirement, by using a different notation, composed by:
- the IPv4 network 
- a **prefix** of the address, made up of $n$ bits

For example, the class full representation of the network $192.168.1.0/c$ is $192.168.1.0/24$ using the prefix length notation.

Using this notation we are not limited by only 3 classes of domain.

> the smallest usable netmask contains only 4 devices

%% Add part about the last bits%%
### Routing Table
In static routing, someone configure the routing table, which maps a subnet to the output link in which the packet will be sent.

Given a destination IP address to reach, the packet will be forwarded to link indicted in the routing table if a match is present.

In case of multiple matches on a table, we use the **longest prefix matching rule** to decide on which link the packet will be forwarded.

An example of routing table is the following:

destination|output link
--|--
200.23.16.0/20|1
200.23.18.0/23|2
199.31.0.0/16|2
