#### Symmetric Cryptography
###### Question 1
DES is an algorithm that allows:
- [x] symmetric encryption of data by splitting data in blocks
- [ ] symmetric encryption of data by processing the data flow
- [ ] creation of digital signatures with asymmetric keys
- [ ] creation of digital signature and encryption of data with asymmetric keys
###### Question 2
The key length to defend from brute force attacks has increased because:
- [ ] the use of permutations and transpositions in algorithms has increased
- [ ] as algorithms get stronger, they get less complex, and thus more susceptible to attacks
- [x] processor speed and power have increased
- [ ] key length reduces over time
###### Question 3
What of the following properties should a secure AES key have?
- [x] confidentiality
	- The keys should be secret/secure
- [ ] non-repudiation
- [ ] traceability
- [x] randomness
	- A secure key must also be pseudo-random, because it must be hard to guess
###### Question 4
The advantages of the ECB mode are:
- [x] parallel encryption
- [x] parallel decryption
- [x] random access to blocks (you can decrypt a block independently from the others)
- [x] simple implementation
- [ ] difficult to perform cryptanalysis because identical blocks encrypt differently
- [ ] it's not possible to swap blocks
- [ ] it's not possible to delete blocks
- [ ] is resistant to known-plaintext attacks
###### Question 5
if a tool uses AES-256-ECB, you can assume that
- [ ] the tool can accept as a possible input either a private key or a public key
- [ ] the tool will have a negligible padding size
- [ ] the tool will operate on an Initialization Vector of 128 bit
- [x] the tool adopts a symmetric algorithm, with a 256-bit key, and where each block of ciphertext is related to only one block of plaintext
###### Question 6
Which of the following statements are true for the CBC mode?
- [x] parallel decryption
- [ ] parallel encryption
- [x] protection on order of blocks
- [ ] if one cyphertext block is Iost/deleted, the error propagates to the decryption of all the blocks from that point on
- [x] an IV is used to randomize the first cyphertext block
- [x] it's resistant to known-plaintext attacks
- [ ] random access to blocks (you can decrypt a block independently from the others)
###### Question 7
If you encrypt $50B$ of plaintext with AES-128-CBC, how long is the ciphertext?
- [ ] 50B
- [x] 64B
- [ ] 80B
> Each block in AES-128 has 128 bit->16 Bytes, so $66\mod 16=0$

In the above case, let's assume the ciphertext is a secret message to be sent by Alice to Bob. Indicate the size of data transmitted so that Bob can recover the plaintext:
- [ ] 50B
- [ ] 64B
- [x] 80B
###### Question 8
If you encrypt 50B of plaintext with AES-256-CBC, how long is the ciphertext?
- [ ] 50B
- [x] 64B
- [ ] 80B
In the above case, let's assume the ciphertext is a secret message to be sent by Alice to Bob. Indicate the size of data transmitted so that Bob can recover the plaintext
- [ ] 50B
- [ ] 64B
- [x] 80B
	- the block size is 128 bits, not 256
- [ ] 96B
###### Question 9
If you encrypt 32B of plaintext with AES-128-CBC, how long is the ciphertext?
- [ ] 32B
- [x] 48B
	- one block of padding is added
- [ ] 64B
If you encrypt 32B of plaintext with AES-128-CTR, how long is the ciphertext?
- [x] 32B
- [ ] 48B
- [ ] 64B
###### Question 10
Assume Alice wants to protect her data (1 TB) on disk, but she does not want to increase the space occupied on disk.
Moreover, she would like to perform the encryption very fast and to keep her data protected for 10 years. Which algorithm should she use?
- [ ] AES-128-CBC
- [ ] AES-128-ECB
- [x] AES-256-CTS-CBC
- [ ] 3DES-168-CTS-CBC
- [ ] AES-512-CTS-CBC
	-  there isn't a 512 bit version of AES
###### Question 11
Assume Alice wants to protect her data (1 TB) on disk, she has more space, but she would like to perform the encryption very fast. Which algorithm should she use?
- [ ] AES-128-CBC
- [ ] AES-128-ECB
- [ ] AES-256-CTR
- [ ] 3DES-168-CTR
- [ ] AES-512-CTS-CBC
- [x] Chacha20-256
- [ ] Chacha20-512
- [ ] RC4-128
###### Question 12
Which of the following statements are true for the CRT mode:
- [x] allows parallel encryption of plaintext
- [x] allows parallel decryption of plaintext
- [x] allows random access to groups
- [x] if a ciphertext block is modified, then (only) that group is erroneously decrypted (but not the successive ones)
- [x] it is difficult to perform cryptanalysis because identical plaintext groups encrypt differently
- [ ] it's possible to rearrange/swap cyphertext groups
- [x] if a ciphertext group is deleted, all successive cyphertext groups will be decrypted erroneously
###### Exercise 1
Alice wants to send a confidential message P to Bob . . and:
- [ ] Alice and Bob have 64 bit platforms
- [ ] P is large, e.g. 10 GB
- [ ] P must be protected for 2 months
Alice and Bob have agreed OOB about an algorithm (AES- 128-CBC) and a key (K). Write the formulas and the steps.
###### Solution 1
Steps: 
- Alice
	-  generates IV = random (128 bit)
		-  fresh, unpredictable (random), 1 block long 
	- computes C = AES-128-CBC-enc( K, P, IV )
	-  (Alice > Bob) send (IV, C)
- Bob
	- receives (IV, C)
	- computes P' = AES-128-CBC-dec( K, C, IV )

###### Solution 2
Alice
-  generates IV = random (128 bit)
	-  fresh, unpredictable (random), 1 block long
- computes C = AES-128-CBC-enc( K, P, IV )
-  computes IV' = AES-128-ECB-enc( K, IV )
- (Alice > Bob) send (IV', C)
Bob
-  receives (IV', C)
- computes IV = AES-128-ECB-dec( K, IV' )
- computes P = AES-128-CBC-dec( K, C, IV )
###### Question 13
Which of the following algorithm is based on the fact that it
is hard to factor large numbers into two prime numbers?
- [ ] ECC
- [x] RSA
- [ ] Diffie-Hellman
- [ ] DES
###### Question 14
Assume Alice wants to communicate to Bob her public key.
She decides to sends the key over an unprotected channel, because the public key is public. Assume Eve can control the communication channel between Alice and Bob. What kind of security attacks could do Eve to damage the secure communication between Alice and Bob?
- [ ] replay attack — Eve sends the public key of Alice 10 times
- [ ] sniffing attack — Eve reads the public key of Alice
- [x] man in the middle — Eve modifies the public key of Alice by changing some bits
- [x] man in the middle — Eve replaces the public key of Alice with her own
- [x] filtering — Eve deletes the public key of Alice
###### Question 15
A sender (Alice) wants to send a digitally signed message to a receiver (Bob). Which key is used to create a digital signature?
- [ ] The receiver's private key
- [ ] The sender's public key
- [x] The sender's private key
- [ ] The receiver's public key
###### Question 16
What is the advantage of RSA over DSA?
- [x] lt can provide digital signature and encryption functionality.
- [ ] lt uses fewer resources and encrypts faster because it uses symmetric keys.
- [ ] lt is a block cipher rather than a stream cipher.
- [ ] lt employs a one-time encryption pad.
###### Question 17
Which of the following best describes a digital signature?
- [ ] A method of transferring a handwritten signature to an electronic document
- [ ] A method to encrypt confidential information
- [ ] A method to provide an electronic signature and encryption
- [x] A method to let the receiver of the message verify the source (data origin) and integrity of a message
###### Question 18
Diffie-Hellman is a:
- [ ] symmetric algorithm
- [x] asymmetric algorithm
- [ ] hash algorithm
- [ ] keyed-digest algorithm
... that is frequently used for:
- [ ] creating digital signatures
- [x] agreeing on a secret key
- [ ] creating an HMAC
###### Question 19
Alice wants to send a secret key K to Bob by using asymmetric cryptography. Which operation must Alice do?
- [x] encrypt the key K with the public key of Bob, by using RSA
- [ ] encrypt the key K with the public key of Bob, by using DSA
- [ ] encrypt the key K with her own public key, by using RSA
- [ ] encrypt the key K with the private key of Bob, by using DSA