#### Connection hijacking/MiTM
Is a type of active attack that needs the attacker to be sitting in the middle of the connection between two parties to take control of the communication channel.

This allows him to read, insert or alter the data that travels in the communication channel. To do so the attacker alters the routing between the two ends of it, and can also happen after the channel is created(after peers authentication).

> Is also called data spoofing.
#### Trojan
Is a application with a dangerous payload.
Usually network are quite protected, and are getting better at that, but the hosts itself are less protected, for various reason(mainly the users).

The are often used to create a *Man at the end*(MATE) or a *Man in the browser*(MITB).
### Classification of Malware
A malware is a program which end is to **damage** a **system**. There are many kinds of malware:
- **virus**: A computer program that can copy itself and infect a computer without permission or knowledge of the user. It can replicate itself and can attach to another program.
- **worm**: A self-replicating, self-propagating, self-contained program that uses networking mechanisms to spread itself.
> The main differences between viruses and worms is that the *worms can self-replicate* and propagate *without human interaction* and that the worm does not integrate into existing code.
- **trojan horse**: A computer program that appears to have a useful function, but also has a hidden and potentially malicious function that evades security mechanisms, sometimes by exploiting legitimate authorizations of a system entity that invokes the program.
- **backdoor**: An undocumented way of gaining access to a computer system.
- **rootkit**: A set of tools used by an attacker after gaining root-level access to a host to conceal the attacker’s activities on the host and permit the attacker to maintain root-level access to the host through covert means.

In general a malware **requires** the **complicity**(even involuntary) of an user, an system manager or a producer.
## Technology and human beings
Some problems for security are not caused by technological issues, but are generated by human errors, for various reasons(low awareness, stress, human mistakes). 
### Social Engineering
The type of attacks that exploits human errors instead of application vulnerabilities are the so called **social engineering attacks**.

An attackers often targets naive users, because attacks can be carried out easily, but also an experienced users can be targeted.
#### Phishing
Is a kind of social engineering attack that attracts an user to a fake(shadow) server to acquire authentication credential or other date or even persuade him to install a plugin/extension.

There are some variants to it, which are :
- spear phishing: which provides some personal data to disguise the fake message as a legitimate one
- %%missed that one, will add later on%%

It usually involves fake emails of sms.