###  Explain what is the principle "defence-in depth", why it is needed in ICT systems and make a concrete example of its implementation.
Defence-in depth is a security principle referring to the fact that one security measure is never enough to secure a system, because issues can arise, like a fail of a firewall. So it is necessary to have multiple layers of security, to have fail-over protection. For example, a single firewall to protect a network is not enough, but we have to both to diversify the security measure and, more often than not, implement supplemental layers of each of them(like different kinds of antivirus).
### A user must decide if to protect a file with a mac or with a digital signature, for each case describe the operations to be performed, the security properties obtained, and the relative advantages and disadvantages.
A message authentication code is a method to guarantee both data authentication an its integrity. Its computed by combining the digest of a message, applying it a function with a symmetric key to create authenticated digest that will be decrypted by the receiver. He will also apply the same hash function to the message and compare it to the decrypted one. If they are the same, both proprieties are guaranteed. Instead of a symmetric encryption schema, also a hash function can be used.

Digital signature uses asymmetric encryption instead. The sender encrypts the hash of the data to be protected with its private key and sends it the receiver. He will receive both the actual data and the encrypted digest, that he will be able to decrypt with the public key of the sender.
If the hash function produces the same value of the decrypted digest, the date are the same.

Now, by using a dig.sig. we are able to guarantee both integrity and authentication of the data, while also proving non-repudation of it (because only the owner of the private it could have produced the right value).
Furthermore, it is faster to produce a MAC because simm.encr. is faster that asymetric one, and handling public key certificates can be quite troublesome.
On the other hand, communication a symmetric keys can be quite difficult too.
###  Explain what is an asymmetric challenge-response authentication system, describe which data are exchanged between the client and the server, and discuss the advantages and disadvantages of this approach
Asymmetric-challenge-response is an implementation of the general CRA system that uses asymmetric encryption to authenticate.
First the claimant that wants to authenticate to a verifier, sends its public key certificate(x.509),  to it. He will then provide a challenge, that must a random nonce, encrypted with the public key of the claimant. He will then respond to it by sending the decrypted data. If the challenge and the final sent value are the same the user is authenticated.
Asymm.CRA is the strongest CRA authentication method possible, but the claimant must have a public key certificate and both parties must trust the same certification authority.
Furthermore, asymmetric encryption can be quite slow but the verifier dont have to use any store to authenticate its users.
It is usually necessary to authenticate the server too, because it can lead to an unvoluntary signature of some data(like an hash value).
### If an electronic document is timestamped at time T what does it prove? choose:
- [ ] the document existed at time T.
- [ ] if the document is modified after time T, the timestamp will permit to detect the manipulation
- [ ] the document was created before time T
- [x] the document was signed by the author at time T
- [ ] the document was signed by the author before time T.
### Describe the HTTP basic authentication and discuss its advantages and disadvantages
HTTP basic authentication is one of the simplest authentication methods.
When the user want to authenticate, after getting an unauthorized response(error code 401 usually), he will provide its credentials, encoded in base 64 with the format "user:password", in the following request as paramethers.
The server will then decide how to respond based on the supplied information.
As said, is fast and simple, but it has no protection for the data on the network(no encryption applied).
### Consider some network traffic protected with IPsec (V2) ESP in transport mode and tell which security properties would the traffic have. For each property, tell if it is compulsory or optional, how it would be obtained, and which part of the ip packet it would protect.
IPSec ESP encrypts only the payload of the level 4 packet, but not the original header. Between then, it adds an IPsec header and a trailer at the end of the whole thing.
This method can provide confidentiality, if needed, integrity, semi-anti-replay attack, authentication