#### Earliest Deadline First Scheduling
The Earliest Deadline First Algorithm, or EDF, **selects tasks** according to **their absolute deadlines**. At each instant, the task with earliest deadline will receive highest priority.

This schema assumes that:
- tasks have dynamic priority, to they can change over time
- The scheduler is preemptive
- The architecture only implements one processor

A set of periodic task is schedulable in this manner only if the scheduler factor is equal or less than 1, or
$$\sum^{n}_{i=1}\frac{C_i}{T_i}\le1$$
EDF is more complex than RM, but is also more performant.
In overloading situation, such as starting and stopping a lot of tasks, it is more difficult to predict with precision, so RM is a much simpler approach to predict, which can be more suitable. In such situations, EDF can also experience a domino effect, in n which a large number of tasks unnecessarily miss their deadline.

As a rule of thumb, EDF is always able to exploit the full processor capacity, whereas RM in the worst case does not.
### Aperiodic Task
Aperiodic tasks are tasks that are not activated in regular intervals.

For those kind of tasks, scheduling algorithms are defined using:
- $\alpha$, which described the machine environment on which the task set has to be scheduled(number of processors, distributed architecture,$\dots$)
- $\beta$, which describes the task itself and its resource characteristics(preemptive, synchronous activations, $\dots$)
- $\gamma$, which indicates the optimality criterion to be followed in the schedule
#### Jackson's algorithm
A common problem is the scheduling of a series of tasks with asynchronous arrival time on a machine which implements a single processor. In this scenario, tasks can have different WCET and deadline.

To minimize the lateness of the tasks, this algorithm uses the earliest due date criteria. In fact, Given a set of n independent tasks, any algorithm that executes the tasks in order of non decreasing deadlines is optimal with respect to minimizing the maximum lateness.
#### Horn's algorithm
Jackson's algorithm assumes that alla the tasks arrives at the same time. This allows to ignore the preemption handling overhead. 
In any other scenario, preemption is needed.

Given a set of n independent tasks with arbitrary arrival times, any algorithm that at any instant executes the task with the earliest absolute deadline among all the ready tasks is optimal with respect to minimizing the maximum lateness.
### Priority Servers
So far we considered only homogenous task sets, but in reality tasks are not an omologous type.

