### Interrupt controller
The main function of a Input/Output (I/O) system is to exchange
information with the external world. it has to be controlled by the CPU, which has to intercept the service requests and handle them.

There are 2 main approaches to handle I/O devices:
- polling, which does not require specific hardware
- interrupt, which does require it
#### Polling
Polling is the simplest approach. The CPU constantly asks every external device if it needs an I/O operation. Thus, it is usually implemented as a software cycle.

The CPU see the external devices as status register, and has to map them to a memory address. So part of the system memory addresses is reserved to accommodate those values, which are checked on regular basis.

This approach wastes a lot of CPU cycled just to check, making it power inefficient and reducing performances.
#### Interrupt
This is a more efficient approach, because the external devices interact directly with the CPU, making an I/O operation request directly to the computing unit, which, at that moment, can even be in IDLE mode.

When a request is received, the CPU needs to recognize the source of request in order to execute the proper handler. Thus, a data structure, which is a table, is initialized at boot time. This solves the problem of address translation for each I/O device. The system also implements an **interrupt controller**.

Interrupts are generally a problem: they are asynchronous, so they can be detected at any point. An interrupt is generally equivalent of a jump instruction. The CPU has to, at first, conclude the execution of the instruction that is altering the architectural state(eg: a instruction in the WB state). After that the following instruction in the program flow has to be discarded.
##### System setup for interrupt mode
To handle I/O operation in interrupt mode, the system has to some work to handle at boot time:
- it initializes an **interrupt handler table**, in which each line represent a different interrupt line(one for each handler). Each line stores the reference to a handler function that has to be executed in case of interrupt.
	- Eventually, it is possible to use additional memory to store a flag variable that can be used as a semaphore that can interrupt the flow of the running program.
- it configures the **interrupt controller**, to enable each interrupt sources an set their priority to handle simultaneous interrupt signals.
